README.md, before:

# esp-homekit-demo
Demo of [Apple HomeKit accessory server
library](https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit).

## Usage

1. Initialize and sync all submodules (recursively):
```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
2. Copy wifi.h.sample -> wifi.h and edit it with correct WiFi SSID and password.
3. Install [esp-open-sdk](https://github.com/pfalcon/esp-open-sdk), build it with `make toolchain esptool libhal STANDALONE=n`, then edit your PATH and add the generated toolchain bin directory. The path will be something like /path/to/esp-open-sdk/xtensa-lx106-elf/bin. (Despite the similar name esp-open-sdk has different maintainers - but we think it's fantastic!)

4. Install [esptool.py](https://github.com/themadinventor/esptool) and make it available on your PATH. If you used esp-open-sdk then this is done already.
5. Checkout [esp-open-rtos](https://github.com/SuperHouse/esp-open-rtos) and set SDK_PATH environment variable pointing to it.
6. Configure settings:
    1. If you use ESP8266 with 4MB of flash (32m bit), then you're fine. If you have
1MB chip, you need to set following environment variables:
    ```shell
    export FLASH_SIZE=8
    export HOMEKIT_SPI_FLASH_BASE_ADDR=0x7a000
    ```
    2. If you're debugging stuff, or have troubles and want to file issue and attach log, please enable DEBUG output:
    ```shell
    export HOMEKIT_DEBUG=1
    ```
    3. Depending on your device, it might be required to change the flash mode:
    ```shell
    export FLASH_MODE=dout
    ```
    (see issue #80)
7. Build example:
```shell
make -C examples/led all
```
8. Set ESPPORT environment variable pointing to USB device your ESP8266 is attached
   to (assuming your device is at /dev/tty.SLAB_USBtoUART):
```shell
export ESPPORT=/dev/tty.SLAB_USBtoUART
```
9. To prevent any effects from previous firmware (e.g. firmware crashing right at
   start), highly recommend to erase flash:
```shell
    make -C examples/led erase_flash
```
10. Upload firmware to ESP:
```shell
    make -C examples/led test
```
  or
```shell
    make -C examples/led flash
    make -C examples/led monitor
```

## ESP32


1. Initialize and sync all submodules (recursively):

```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
2. Copy wifi.h.sample -> wifi.h and edit it with correct WiFi SSID and password.
3. Install [esp-idf](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) by following [instructions on esp-idf project page](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf#setting-up-esp-idf). At the end you should have xtensa-esp32-elf toolchain in your path and IDF_PATH environment variable pointing to esp-idf directory.

4. Configure project:
```
make -C examples/esp32/led menuconfig
```
There are many settings there, but at least you should configure "Serial flasher config -> Default serial port".
Also, check "Components -> HomeKit" menu section.

5. Build example:
```shell
make -C examples/esp32/led all
```
6. To prevent any effects from previous firmware (e.g. firmware crashing right at
   start), highly recommend to erase flash:
```shell
    make -C examples/led erase_flash
```
7. Upload firmware to ESP32:
```shell
    make -C examples/led flash
    make -C examples/led monitor
```

## For Mac OSX High Sierra users

1. First of all you will have to install Git
2. Install Xcode, Macports and Homebrew
3. Execute all commands from here:

https://gist.github.com/xuhdev/8b1b16fb802f6870729038ce3789568f

4. If you continue to face errors you may have to do also:

```shell
   sudo port install git gsed gawk binutils gperf grep gettext py-serial wget libtool autoconf automake
    
   brew install help2man
    
   sudo easy_install pip
    
   pip install --user  pyserial
```

5. You may have to make a case-sensitive volume. Execute the following:

```shell
   sudo hdiutil create ~/Documents/case-sensitive.dmg -volname "case-sensitive" -size 10g -fs "Case-sensitive HFS+"
    
   sudo hdiutil mount ~/Documents/case-sensitive.dmg
    
   cd /Volumes/case-sensitive
```

6. When you compile the compiller succesfully then you will have to follow the instruction above.
   Do not forget to install the components:
   
```shell
   cd /Users/.../.../esp-homekit-demo-master/components

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/pcsaito/WS2812FX-rtos.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-cjson.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-http-parser.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wifi-config.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wolfssl.git
```

Change the components directory names to:

cJSON; homekit; http-parser; wifi_config; wolfssl; WS2812FX

7. For the example compilation you will have to make the esp-open-rtos available on your PATH.
   Example:

```shell
   export PATH="${PATH}:/Volumes/case-sensitive/esp-open-sdk/xtensa-lx106-elf/bin"
   export SDK_PATH=/Volumes/case-sensitive/esp-open-rtos
```

Than compile the example:

```shell
   cd /Users/.../.../esp-homekit-demo-master/
   make -C examples/led_dim all
```

8. If you are using the 4MB USB ESP-8266 D1 mInI module you will find it at something like /dev/tty.wchusbserialfa140
Chek where it is with:

```shell
   ls /dev/tty*
```
Than you are ready to flash:

```shell
   export ESPPORT=/dev/tty.wchusbserialfa140
   make -C examples/led_dim erase_flash
   make -C examples/led_dim flash
   make -C examples/led_dim monitor
```
9. Enjoy

Commit message:

A Mac OSX High Sierra description added.
Two examples with mInI D1 (Wemos) USB board are added - a Switch and a White LED dimmer.
The dimmer has the ability to go smoothly between set points.

README.md, after:

# esp-homekit-demo
Demo of [Apple HomeKit accessory server
library](https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit).

## Usage

1. Initialize and sync all submodules (recursively):
```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
2. Copy wifi.h.sample -> wifi.h and edit it with correct WiFi SSID and password.
3. Install [esp-open-sdk](https://github.com/pfalcon/esp-open-sdk), build it with `make toolchain esptool libhal STANDALONE=n`, then edit your PATH and add the generated toolchain bin directory. The path will be something like /path/to/esp-open-sdk/xtensa-lx106-elf/bin. (Despite the similar name esp-open-sdk has different maintainers - but we think it's fantastic!)

4. Install [esptool.py](https://github.com/themadinventor/esptool) and make it available on your PATH. If you used esp-open-sdk then this is done already.
5. Checkout [esp-open-rtos](https://github.com/SuperHouse/esp-open-rtos) and set SDK_PATH environment variable pointing to it.
6. Configure settings:
    1. If you use ESP8266 with 4MB of flash (32m bit), then you're fine. If you have
1MB chip, you need to set following environment variables:
    ```shell
    export FLASH_SIZE=8
    export HOMEKIT_SPI_FLASH_BASE_ADDR=0x7a000
    ```
    2. If you're debugging stuff, or have troubles and want to file issue and attach log, please enable DEBUG output:
    ```shell
    export HOMEKIT_DEBUG=1
    ```
    3. Depending on your device, it might be required to change the flash mode:
    ```shell
    export FLASH_MODE=dout
    ```
    (see issue #80)
7. Build example:
```shell
make -C examples/led all
```
8. Set ESPPORT environment variable pointing to USB device your ESP8266 is attached
   to (assuming your device is at /dev/tty.SLAB_USBtoUART):
```shell
export ESPPORT=/dev/tty.SLAB_USBtoUART
```
9. To prevent any effects from previous firmware (e.g. firmware crashing right at
   start), highly recommend to erase flash:
```shell
    make -C examples/led erase_flash
```
10. Upload firmware to ESP:
```shell
    make -C examples/led test
```
  or
```shell
    make -C examples/led flash
    make -C examples/led monitor
```

## ESP32


1. Initialize and sync all submodules (recursively):

```shell
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
2. Copy wifi.h.sample -> wifi.h and edit it with correct WiFi SSID and password.
3. Install [esp-idf](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf) by following [instructions on esp-idf project page](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf#setting-up-esp-idf). At the end you should have xtensa-esp32-elf toolchain in your path and IDF_PATH environment variable pointing to esp-idf directory.

4. Configure project:
```
make -C examples/esp32/led menuconfig
```
There are many settings there, but at least you should configure "Serial flasher config -> Default serial port".
Also, check "Components -> HomeKit" menu section.

5. Build example:
```shell
make -C examples/esp32/led all
```
6. To prevent any effects from previous firmware (e.g. firmware crashing right at
   start), highly recommend to erase flash:
```shell
    make -C examples/led erase_flash
```
7. Upload firmware to ESP32:
```shell
    make -C examples/led flash
    make -C examples/led monitor
```

## For Mac OSX High Sierra users

1. First of all you will have to install Git
2. Install Xcode, Macports and Homebrew
3. Execute all commands from here:

https://gist.github.com/xuhdev/8b1b16fb802f6870729038ce3789568f

4. If you continue to face errors you may have to do also:

```shell
   sudo port install git gsed gawk binutils gperf grep gettext py-serial wget libtool autoconf automake
    
   brew install help2man
    
   sudo easy_install pip
    
   pip install --user  pyserial
```

5. You may have to make a case-sensitive volume. Execute the following:

```shell
   sudo hdiutil create ~/Documents/case-sensitive.dmg -volname "case-sensitive" -size 10g -fs "Case-sensitive HFS+"
    
   sudo hdiutil mount ~/Documents/case-sensitive.dmg
    
   cd /Volumes/case-sensitive
```

6. When you compile the compiller succesfully then you will have to follow the instruction above.
   Do not forget to install the components:
   
```shell
   cd /Users/.../.../esp-homekit-demo-master/components

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/pcsaito/WS2812FX-rtos.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-cjson.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-http-parser.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wifi-config.git

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wolfssl.git
```

Change the components directory names to:

cJSON; homekit; http-parser; wifi_config; wolfssl; WS2812FX

7. For the example compilation you will have to make the esp-open-rtos available on your PATH.
   Example:

```shell
   export PATH="${PATH}:/Volumes/case-sensitive/esp-open-sdk/xtensa-lx106-elf/bin"
   export SDK_PATH=/Volumes/case-sensitive/esp-open-rtos
```

Than compile the example:

```shell
   cd /Users/.../.../esp-homekit-demo-master/
   make -C examples/led_dim all
```

8. If you are using the 4MB USB ESP-8266 D1 mInI module you will find it at something like /dev/tty.wchusbserialfa140
(You will also need to install the Wemos drivers - CH341SER.)
Chek where it is with:

```shell
   ls /dev/tty*
```
Than you are ready to flash:

```shell
   export ESPPORT=/dev/tty.wchusbserialfa140
   make -C examples/led_dim erase_flash
   make -C examples/led_dim flash
   make -C examples/led_dim monitor
```
9. Enjoy
